9/28 @ 5pm
Gianine Tabja
http://www.gianinetabja.com/portfolio.html
Gianine Tabja is a Peruvian visual artist whose work focuses on the relationships between time, displacement, and urban and industrial interventions. She holds a Bachelor in Fine Arts with a major in Painting from the PUCP and graduated with honors from the Glasgow School of Art where she obtained her Master of Letters in Fine Art Practice and she received the Sustainable Artistic Practices Found, SiAG Founding GSA. Tabja has been selected to participate in residences including “Hawapi- Máxima Acuña 2019” in Cajamarca“, Localities III - Hacking Europe” in Brussels , “RAT” in Mexico City, “Espacio 02” in Lima, "Hawapi 2015 and 2014" in Huepetuhe and Pariacaca. She has had two solo shows: “Unidad I, el Paraíso” at Cecilia González Gallery and “Levedad e Identidad,” at Ricardo Palma Cultural Center as well as a two person show “Desde hace 200 años” at ENAV in Trujillo with the artist Gabriela Flores del Pozo. She has participated in numerous group exhibitions in Peru and internationally. Tabja has taught courses and workshops in various private and public institutions including foster homes, women penitentiaries, as well as schools, universities and art schools. Gianine is a founding member of FIBRA Collective with whom she won the award for visual arts production from the Ministry of Culture of Peru. She lives and works in Lima.


10/5 @ 5pm
Sameer Farooq
http://www.sameerfarooq.com
Sameer Farooq is a Canadian artist of Pakistani and Ugandan Indian descent. His interdisciplinary practice investigates tactics of representation and enlists the tools of sculpture, installation, photography, documentary filmmaking, writing and the methods of anthropology to explore various forms of collecting, interpreting, and display. The result is often a collaborative work which counterbalances how dominant institutions speak about our lives: a counter-archive, new additions to a museum collection, or a buried history made visible. With exhibitions at institutions around the world including the Aga Khan Museum (Toronto), the Art Gallery of Ontario (Toronto), The British Library (London), the Institute of Islamic Culture (Paris), Vicki Myhren Gallery (Denver), the Contemporary Art Gallery (Vancouver), Maquis Projects, (Izmir), Trankat (Tétouan, Morocco), Sol Koffler Gallery (Providence), Artellewa (Cairo), and Sanat Limani (Istanbul), Farooq received several awards from The Canada Council for the Arts, Ontario Arts Council, Toronto Arts Council, and the Europe Media Fund, as well the President’s Scholarship at the Rhode Island School of Design. Reviews and essays dedicated to his work have been included in C Magazine, The Washington Post, BBC Culture, Hyperallergic, Artnet, The Huffington Post, Canadian Art, and others. He also appeared on the 2018 Sobey Art Award long list, Canada’s preeminent art award.

10/12 @ 5pm
Intisar Abioto
https://www.intisarabioto.com
Intisar Abioto (born Memphis, TN, lives/works Portland, OR) is an explorer-artist working across photography, dance, and writing. Moving from the visionary and embodied root of Blackgirl Southern cross-temporal cross-modal storytelling ways, her works refer to the living breath/breadth of people of African descent against the expanse of their storied, geographic, and imaginative landscapes. Abioto is the recipient of a 2018 Oregon Humanities Emerging Journalists, Community Stories Fellowship for which she began a continuing body of research on the history of artists of African descent in Oregon. She has performed and/or exhibited at Ori Gallery, Portland Art Museum, Duplex Gallery, Photographic Center Northwest, African American Museum in Philadelphia, Poetry Press Week, Design Week Portland, Spelman College, Powell’s City of Books, University of Oregon White Box Gallery, Portland State University, Reed College, and Zilkha Gallery among others. With the five women artists in her family, she is the co-founder of Studio Abioto, a multivalent creative arts studio.


10/19 @ 5pm
Francesca Capone
https://www.francescacapone.com
Francesca Capone is a visual artist, writer, and materials designer based in Portland, Oregon. Her work is primarily concerned with the creation of materials and a poetic consideration of their meaning. She is interested in how tactile forms simultaneously serve as functional surfaces for daily life and as a mode of communication or symbol within the cultural paradigm. Her books Woven Places (Some Other Books, 2018), Text means Tissue (2017), and Weaving Language (information as material 2018, Self Published 2015) focus on textile poetics. They are available for purchase via Printed Matter, and are available for viewing at the MoMA Library and the Watson Library at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. She has exhibited at Whitechapel Gallery in London, LUMA/Westbau in Switzerland, Textile Arts Center in NYC, and 99¢ Plus Gallery in Brooklyn. She has been an artist in residence at the Josef and Anni Albers Foundation and Andrea Zittel's A-Z West. Her academic work includes lectures and workshops at Brown University, Rhode Island School of Design, Reed College, University of Washington, and Alberta College of Art and Design, among others.


10/26 @ 3:30pm
Elisa Giardina-Papa
http://www.elisagiardinapapa.org
Elisa Giardina Papa is an Italian artist whose work investigates gender, sexuality, care and labor in relation to neoliberal capitalism and the borders of the Global South. Her work has been exhibited and screened at MoMA (New York), Whitney Museum (Sunrise/Sunset Commission), Seoul Mediacity Biennale 2018, Unofficial Internet Pavilion of the 54th Venice Biennial, XVI Quadriennale di Roma, rhizome.org (Download Commission), The Flaherty NYC, Institute for Contemporary Art, Milano (ICA Milano), among others. Giardina Papa received an MFA from RISD, and a BA from Politecnico of Milan, and she is currently pursuing a PhD in film and media studies at the University of California Berkeley. She lives and works in New York and Sant’Ignazio (Sicily). Giardina Papa is a founding member of the artist collective Radha May.


11/9 @ 5pm
Anina Major
http://www.aninamajor.com
Anina Major is a visual artist from The Bahamas whose work investigates the relationships between self and place to cultivate a sense of belonging. Major studied at the College of The Bahamas before earning her BS in Graphic Design from Drexel University and her MFA from the Rhode Island School of Design. She is the recipient of numerous awards and residencies, including the St. Botolph Club Foundation Emerging Artists Award for sculpture, MassMoCA Studio Artist Program and Provincetown Fine Arts Work Center Fellowship. Her work has been exhibited in The Bahamas, across the United States, and Europe.


11/16 @ 5pm
Ellie Irons
http://ellieirons.com/
Ellie Irons is an artist and educator based in Brooklyn and Troy, New York. Working across media, from watercolor to re-wilding experiments, her practice combines socially engaged art and ecology fieldwork. Recent work involves collaborations focused on spontaneous urban plants (aka weeds), including co-founding the Next Epoch Seed Library and the Environmental Performance Agency. Irons received a BA from Scripps College in Los Angeles and an MFA from Hunter College, NY. She is currently a PhD candidate in arts practice Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, focusing on how critical ecosocial art contributes to the struggle for multispecies solidarity in an age of climate chaos and mass extinction. Her work has been part of recent exhibitions on environmental art and activism, including The Department of Human and Natural Services at NURTUREArt, Ecological Consciousness: Artist as Instigator at Wave Hill, and Unsettled Nature: Artists Reflect on the Age of Humans at the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History. Her work has been covered by publications ranging from Art in America to the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.


11/30 @ 6:30pm
Nandita Kumar
https://nanditakumar.com
Nandita Kumar (born Mauritius, lives/works India) is a new-media artist who creates immersive environmental spaces. Through her installations, interactive sculptures, paintings, and animations, which seamlessly integrate new media and materiality, Kumar reflects the striking contradictions within the industrial and natural landscape. Nandita has shown in varied festivals and exhibitions throughout the world including Pompidou, ZKM, LACMA, REDCAT, ISEA, Je de Paume, The New Zealand International Film Festival, Film Anthology Archive NY, Indian Art Fair, Rome International Film festival, Stuttgart Animation Festival, The Academy of Television Art and Sciences in Los Angeles and been included in Best of Sydney Underground Festival DVD. “Ghar Pe/At Home” (2011-2012), a community art project she curated, has been documented online by Asian Art Archive (Hong Kong). She holds a joint Bachelors’s Degree from MS University, Baroda (India) and Elam School Of the Arts, Auckland University, (New Zealand), and has completed her Master’s Degree in Experimental Animation at California Institute of the Arts, Los Angeles (USA).
